Special report number 239 coming in 3, 2, 1.
From Washington, D.C., a special report on our nation's spaceflight participant
program. A program that may allow you, an ordinary citizen, to someday fly in
space.
If we take time to reflect on those people in our lives who have had the
greatest influence, For most of us, somewhere near the top is a teacher. NASA
thinks teachers are important people too. Schools and teachers are training the
nation's greatest resource, our children. With this in mind, it was no surprise
that the President, at NASA's recommendation, requested NASA to select a teacher
as the first civilian to fly into space. Here to tell us about this program is
Patrick Templeton, Associate Administrator for External Relations at NASA
Headquarters. By flying a teacher, we will be able to share with a very large
segment of society the excitement of the space program and bring it into
classrooms, bring it into the homes through the teacher and the student. And
what really, what better mechanism to communicate with the American public than
through our wonderful teachers? because, by bringing the message of the space
program into the classroom, and that's conceivably every elementary and
secondary school classroom in this country, we will excite the imagination and
the interest that those youngsters already have in the space program, excite
their interest further, bring the space program closer to them, help weave, in
some respects, the theme of space through their curriculum and help make it a
little bit more exciting because every discipline, whether it's reading,
writing, or arithmetic, has some application to space. And if we can bring a
little bit more of that excitement into the classroom, it could help interest
these youngsters into studying, as they grow older, more science, math, getting
into engineering, and not be intimidated by it. So we believe that by flying a
teacher in space, we're going to be able to communicate that message out to an
awful lot more young people and to their parents than we might have by flying
someone else first. Right now, the United States is the world leader in
aeronautics and space technologies. That lead, however, is shrinking as other
nations apply themselves to these areas. If this country is going to stay ahead
in the world, we'll stay ahead in new technology development, stay ahead in
industry, and new product developments, then we have to be very well-versed in
high technology. This emphasis now on science, math, engineering, and problem
-solving is very, very important. The space program and the flying of a teacher
can help bring that a little closer to home, and bringing it into the classroom,
I think, by flying a teacher, and by bringing that awareness into the elementary
and secondary school levels. Because if we don't graduate more people, more
youngsters in the future who have this capability, then our friends in foreign
countries who are emphasizing these kinds of studies will get ahead of us. And
the new jobs that will be created in the future. More of those will be created
abroad than are created here, and the jobs for our children and their children
will not be as many as we would like and as we should have to maintain our
standard of living. So this is a very important step toward helping bring that
awareness closer to home. An announcement of opportunity issued in October lists
the specific qualifications and requirements for applications. And that process
application process will probably run through January. We are in the process now
of selecting a procedure to evaluate the applications and we hope that that will
be through that process in time to bring the hundred or so finalists to from
each state and the territories and so forth to the Johnson Space Center for a
workshop for about a week and then coming back and selecting out of those
hundred, hundred and ten semi-finalists, ten finalists, we will be taking that
down to five and then selecting a primary and a backup. And those two will go
through an eight-week training at the Johnson Space Center to prepare them for
flight. And the backup obviously will be there in the event that something
happens to the primary candidate. Program manager for the space flight
participant program in the office of space flight is Alan Ladwig. We've actually
been looking at the situation on how to fly private citizen on the space shuttle
for the past 12 years ever since the development on the vehicle began. There had
been several task forces that have looked at that over the years. And then in
early 1982, NASA administrator James Beggs asked the NASA Advisory Council to
set up a task force and look into specifically how could we include private
citizens on shuttle missions. During the work of the task force, they
interviewed a lot of different people, different organizations, and they
addressed it from two tracks. One, to fly individuals that were very well-known,
celebrity-type of people. The other track included categories. The task force
decided that the best way to go about doing this was to choose categories. and
in that they discovered that we should go with a communicator of some type
because that fit within NASA's mandates under the Space Act. And two mandates in
particular were the mandate to widely disseminate information about the shuttle
program to the public, and secondly, to foster and maintain U.S. leadership in
aeronautic and astronaut research. Mr. Ladwig spelled out for us some of the
requirements. The teachers that are eligible for this first opportunity have to
come from the elementary or secondary education level. They have to be full-time
teachers, they have to be U.S. citizens, and they can't be married to a current
or former NASA employee. What we're going to expect of them is to complete an
application packet, and as part of that packet, we're going to ask them to
complete an essay question that states, why do they want to go on this mission,
what would they do during the flight opportunity, and how would they share the
experience when they get back. So we're going to expect a pretty big commitment
from them to work with NASA for about one year after they come back to go out
and talk to civic groups, to student groups, to work with other teachers, to be
involved in teacher workshops, plus whatever it is they are going to recommend
that they can do. So we want teachers to understand that this is a pretty big
commitment. It's more than just going up and having a nice flight and coming
back. we're gonna expect them to work pretty hard for us. So, again, this is why
we need a good communicator. Somebody that is a little shy in front of groups or
doesn't like to talk in front of groups probably won't do very well in this
program. Because the space shuttle provides an almost airliner-like atmosphere
for its passengers, it will not require a person of above-average physical
health to qualify. The medical standards for a spaceflight participant are
probably the most lenient standards that we've ever had for a person to fly on a
space mission. If the candidate is in reasonably good health, has no physical
injuries or diseases that would get in the way of their participating during a
mission in getting off the shuttle in case of an emergency, that's one standard.
The second standard is that their vision has to be correctable to 2040 and
better eye. They're hearing, they have to be able to hear a whispered voice at
three feet, and they can even wear a hearing aid, and their blood pressure has
to be below 160 over 100, so that's a pretty lenient set of standards, and most
people that are in reasonably good health shouldn't have a hard time with that.
When the person comes back and works for NASA for that year, we will be asking
them to go on sabbatical from their school for that time period, And NASA will
reimburse the school system for their salary, plus pick up their travel and
expenses that are incurred during that time. Choosing a teacher as its first
spaceflight participant is not directed solely toward education. There are,
however, several programs that are. Through the Space Shuttle Program, there are
several opportunities for the education community. First of all, we have the
Shuttle Student Involvement Project, which has just begun its fifth competition.
We began that in the academic year of 1980-81, where we selected ten student
winners from across the country who submitted experiment ideas to be flown on
the shuttle. Since that time, we've selected a total of 50 students. When the
student is announced as a winner, we match them up with a corporate sponsor who
helps the student turn their winning proposal into a flight-ready experiment.
Now, we have flown approximately ten of those experiments to date, And our
intention is to fly at least one shuttle student involvement project on each
mission. Another good opportunity is available through the getaway special
program or our small self-contained payload program. And through that program,
any citizen who has, or anybody around the world for that matter, who has a
valid experiment idea that they would like to conduct in space can purchase
space on a getaway special, And that can be as little as $3,000 or up to $10,000
depending on the amount of space and weight that you want to purchase. And we
have over 500 reservations for getaway specials at this time. We have flown
approximately 21 of those on missions so far. And again, that's the type of
thing where they're flown on a space-available basis. We might fly four or five
on one mission, 12 on the next, whatever the space is. About 40% of the getaway
specials have been sold to educational institutions anywhere from high school
students to college students to graduate students. A more recent program is
Operation Lift Off, which is a initiative that's mainly directed at the
elementary schools the 75,000 elementary schools around the country where we are
fortifying our efforts through educational publications, videodisc, videotapes
that are available for classroom use. This supplements the ongoing effort we've
already had at the secondary level, and is going to include a whole range of new
opportunities and programs. As part of that, you may have heard of the Young
Astronaut Program, which will be a new club geared to students anywhere from the
age of approximately nine up to perhaps 16 or 17, and that is being spearheaded
by the National Space Institute, which is a private space advocacy organization
that is that's going to seek private sector funding to initiate these clubs
around the country. NASA is working with our education system in cooperation and
partnership with the private sector to help keep the U.S. a leader in science
and technology. I think as we start to fly private citizens on the shuttle, it's
likely to change the whole way people think about space flight and the whole
space revolution that's going on. As you said in the past, the main way people
participated has been by watching it on TV. Now we're going to have these
opportunities, limited though they may be in the beginning, for a private
citizen to actually be a part of all that. We believe that the excitement that
is going to cause, the motivation this is going to create for people is going to
lead to new levels of excellence and a new sense of inspiration for particularly
students in the case of educators and among other people as we select different
categories. We've already received indications from teachers around the country
that this initial opportunity of just mentioning that teachers might be able to
go or that a teacher will go as our first participant has created excitement in
the classroom. Teachers are getting more pumped up about their own occupation.
Students are getting excited because they're now looking at teachers as a new
role model, as somebody that might be flying. And we think that with all the
ideas that can be generated about what a teacher can do up there, what they're
going to do when they get back, that the excitement caused by having that when
we name two winners per state so that we're going to have state ambassadors out
of this as well, who will also go out and speak on our behalf, we think this is
going to totally change the way people think about the space program. NASA
believes that through the spaceflight participant program in general and picking
an educator in particular for this first opportunity is going to motivate
students to pay a little more attention to their science and technology courses.
We have seen through various national commissions and different studies that
have occurred over the past eight years that the U.S. does have a problem in
science and math literacy throughout the country with young people. We believe
that the spaceflight participant program can make a contribution towards solving
that problem by encouraging students to study science and math a little more
closely and they will start to find out how the space program is tied directly
into their interest and field of endeavor that they might pursue that may not
even be directly associated with a science or math career. This has been a
special report in our nation's Spaceflight Participant Program brought to you by
NASA, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
with sentiments, theigglyحمs.org station. Happy birthday. I'm going to work to
work on your own. You can do that.